OADP-2745: Testing instructions for AWS/IBM Cloud (#1153)
openshift/oadp-operator: docs/developer/testing/TESTING.md

```

It is also possible to set the environment variables during make command call. Example
```sh
OADP_CRED_FILE=<path_to_backupLocations_credentials_file> \
OADP_BUCKET=<bucket_name> \
CI_CRED_FILE=<path_to_snapshotLocations_credentials_file> \
VSL_REGION=<snapshotLocations_region> \
BSL_REGION=<backupLocations_region> \
OADP_TEST_NAMESPACE=<test_namespace> \
make test-e2e
```

### Azure setup

TODO

### GCP setup

TODO

## Run tests

To run all E2E tests for your provider, run
```bash
make test-e2e
```
### Run selected test

You can run a particular e2e test(s) by placing an `F` at the beginning of Ginkgo objects. Example

```go
FDescribe("test description", func() { ... })
FContext("test scenario", func() { ... })
FIt("the assertion", func() { ... })
...
```

These need to be removed to run all specs. Checks [Ginkgo docs](https://onsi.github.io/ginkgo/) for more info.

## Clean up

To clean environment after running E2E tests, run
```bash
oc delete backup -n $OADP_TEST_NAMESPACE --all
oc delete backuprepository -n $OADP_TEST_NAMESPACE --all
oc delete downloadrequest -n $OADP_TEST_NAMESPACE --all
oc delete podvolumerestore -n $OADP_TEST_NAMESPACE --all

> oc delete restore -n $OADP_TEST_NAMESPACE --all # This fails because of finalizer :(

Author: Do you know how to remove finalizer from the CLI?

Reviewer: https://stackoverflow.com/a/52820472/4590470

<h1 align="center">E2E Testing</h1>

## Prerequisites

### Install Ginkgo

<!-- Can we add this as pre run for make test-e2e? -->
```bash
go install -v github.com/onsi/ginkgo/v2/ginkgo
```

### Setup backup storage configuration

To get started, the test suite expects 2 files to use as configuration for
Velero's backup storage. One file that contains your credentials, and another
that contains additional configuration options (for now, the name of the
bucket).

The default test suite expects these files in `/var/run/oadp-credentials`, but
can be overridden with the environment variables `OADP_CRED_FILE` and
`OADP_BUCKET_FILE`.

To get started, create these 2 files:
`OADP_CRED_FILE`:
```
[<INSERT_PROFILE_NAME>]
aws_access_key_id=<access_key>
aws_secret_access_key=<secret_key>
```
If you use one profile name different from `default`, also change `BSL_AWS_PROFILE`.

<!-- change to env var? -->
`OADP_BUCKET_FILE`:
```
<bucket_name>
```

## Run all e2e tests

<!-- How this is run in CI? Can we add this as pre run for make test-e2e? -->

> TODO set needed variables

Author: Instead of changing the file, `export name=value` works as well, right?

Reviewer: right

<!-- Can we add this as pre run for make test-e2e? -->
```bash
go install -v -mod=mod github.com/onsi/ginkgo/v2/ginkgo
```

### AWS setup

> **Note:** If you are using IBM Cloud, follow this section.

To get started, you need to provide the following **required** environment variables.

| Variable | Description | Default Value | required |
|----------|----------|---------------|---------------|
| `OADP_CRED_FILE` | The path to credentials file for backupLocations | `/var/run/oadp-credentials/new-aws-credentials` | true |
| `OADP_BUCKET` | The bucket name to store backups | `OADP_BUCKET_FILE` file content | true |
| `CI_CRED_FILE` | The path to credentials file for snapshotLocations | `/Users/drajds/.aws/.awscred` | true |
| `VSL_REGION` | The region of snapshotLocations | - | true |
| `BSL_REGION` | The region of backupLocations | `us-east-1` | false |

> | `OADP_TEST_NAMESPACE` | The namespace were OADP will be installed (it must exist prior to run) | `openshift-adp` | false |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `OADP_TEST_NAMESPACE` | The namespace where OADP will be installed (it must exist prior to run) | `openshift-adp` | false |
```

Author: thanks!

The expected format for `OADP_CRED_FILE` and `CI_CRED_FILE` files is:
```
[<INSERT_PROFILE_NAME>]
aws_access_key_id=<access_key>
aws_secret_access_key=<secret_key>
```

> > **Note:** If you use one profile name different from `default` for backupLocations, also change `BSL_AWS_PROFILE` environment variable. snapshotLocations must use `default` profile name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** If you use one profile name different from `default` for backupLocations, also change `BSL_AWS_PROFILE` environment variable. snapshotLocations hardcodes to`default` profile name in e2e code.
```

This was changed recently, but obviously do not apply to older versions.

https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero/pull/4864/files#diff-c7c5ce3182fe7a4b576c1784d2178f62bee4a61b009ac94d27e24e21631a2437R29
@sseago can maybe confirm?

Reviewer 2: The recent change was snapshot locations can have their own credentials file. I think profile support for VSLs has been around longer. In any case, I think for e2e tests, there's no profile env var, so you'll need to use default.

Author: Agree with the changed text, but I was think the hardcoded string comes from here https://github.com/openshift/oadp-operator/blob/master/tests/e2e/scripts/aws_settings.sh#L36

To set the environment variables, run
```sh
export OADP_CRED_FILE=<path_to_backupLocations_credentials_file>
export OADP_BUCKET=<bucket_name>
export CI_CRED_FILE=<path_to_snapshotLocations_credentials_file>
export VSL_REGION=<snapshotLocations_region>
# non required
export BSL_REGION=<backupLocations_region>

> export OADP_TEST_NAMESPACE=<test_namespace>

Reviewer: you can also just do `VAR1=val make test-e2e` which I feel is more verbose and less hidden, less likely to make a mistake assuming values are correct.

Author: Going to also add in the docs!

TODO

## Debugging

```bash
make test-e2e-setup

> cat /tmp/test-settings/oadpcreds

Reviewer: This `/tmp/test-settings/oadpcreds` are not specified elsewhere in the doc so it's hard to tell what it's meant for. ie. is this aws creds? or dpa yaml.

Author: I may be wrong, but I think it is the `spec` part of the DPA that will be used for the tests

For IBM, was useful for see what I was doing wrong (bucket-file format, provider being set to ibmcloud, etc)

Author: Added some info about how this can help

Reviewer: The spec part is actually redefined in the dpa helpers file but based off info in this file. This is because we wanted different plugins/featureflags for CSI and data mover for example.
